MATHEMATICAL TRADING STRATEGIES

Assignment 2

Description: Once the relevant historical data is downloaded from yfinance, for the TASK 1, we use the built-in function <dataframe1>.corr<dataframe2> to calculate the correlation in the data of the two indices of NASDAQ and NSE. For TASK 2, we find the correlation between data of one index and lag in data of the second index. We find this for a lag ranging from one day to 20 days. We repeat but with the lag in theother index this time. Doing this, we see that the correlation is mostly 0.94 when lag is considered in NASDAQ but it is 0.95 when lag is considered in NSE. This suggests that NSE likelys lags behind the NASDAQ index. For TASK 3, we are required to define functions for Keltner Channel, Bollinger Bands and MACD indicators with relevant parameters of time periods, multipliers and index names as function inputs. These functions create a new dataframe with the index's basic data like Open, Close, High, Low and also Upper,Lower(, Middle) Lines (for KC (and BB)) and MACD Line, Signal Line and MACD Histogram for MACD, based on definitions of the indicators and the relevant parameters. For TASK 4 [Parameter Optimisation], we define a (discrete) range of possible parameter values, calculate the Cumulative Returns for NASDAQ index [the leading index] for every parameter combination by trading using KC, BB and MACD indicators. We then choose the parameters resulting in the greatest cumulative returns for each indicator, and call these parameters the indicator's optimal parameters. For TASK 5, we calculate the Cumulative Returns,Sharpe Ratio, Max Drawdown for NSE [the lagging] by trading using each indicator and the corresponding optimal parameters found out in the previous task. 
**One crucial aspect of parameter optimisation and using optimal parameters to trade in the lagging index is that, we need to 'raise' buy/sell signals by considering the relative postions of Upper/Middle/Lower Lines in KC and BB, and MACD/Signal/Histogram Lines in MACD indicators and subsequently calculate CR/ Sharpe Ratio/ Max Drawdown correctly considering the many buy/sell signals.

| |MACD|Bollinger Bands|Keltner Channels|
|-|----|-|-|
|Cumulative Returns|0.23168165988722075|0.48913796211264343|1.3558186002074673|
|Sharpe Ratio|-4.988824090782892|-10.252510343823365|-23.86150350071018|
|Max Drawdown|-0.7822660319882134|-0.5537726479820074|-0.05180686451907468|